README.md, before:

<p align="center" style="margin-top: 120px">

  <h3 align="center">OpenStatus</h3>

  <p align="center">
    The Open-Source monitoring platform with incident management.
    <br />
    <a href="https://www.openstatus.dev"><strong>Learn more »</strong></a>
    <br />
    <br />
    <a href="https://www.openstatus.dev/discord">Discord</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://www.openstatus.dev">Website</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/openstatushq/openstatus/issues">Issues</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://openstatus.productlane.com/roadmap">Roadmap</a>
  </p>
</p>

## About OpenStatus 🏓

OpenStatus is open-source synthetic monitoring platform with beautiful status
page and incident management. We are building it publicly for everyone to see
our progress. We believe great softwares are built this way.

You can choose to host it yourself or use our hosted version at
[openstatus.dev](https://www.openstatus.dev)

## Contact us 💌

If you want to learn more about this project or have any questions, book a call
with us or send us an email at [ping@openstatus.dev](mailto:ping@openstatus.dev)
<br/><br/>
<a href="https://cal.com/team/openstatus/30min"><img alt="Book us with Cal.com" src="https://cal.com/book-with-cal-dark.svg" /></a>

## Built with 🛠️

- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/)
- [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/)
- [tinybird](http://tinybird.co/?ref=openstatus.dev)
- [turso](http://turso.tech/)
- [drizzle](https://orm.drizzle.team/)
- [clerk](https://clerk.com/)
- [Resend](https://resend.com/)

## Getting Started 🚀

### Requirements

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) >= 18.0.0
- [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/) >= 8.6.2

### Setup

1. Clone the repository

   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/openstatushq/openstatus.git
   ```

2. Install dependencies

   ```sh
   pnpm install
   ```

3. Set up your .env file

   from `apps/web` and `packages/db` you will find .env.example create your own.

4. Follow the steps to run your sqlite database locally inside of
   [README.md](https://github.com/openstatusHQ/openstatus/blob/main/packages/db/README.md)

5. Start the development server

   ```sh
    pnpm dev
   ```

6. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see
   the result.

For [clerk](https://clerk.com), you will need to create a webhook endpoint. To
access the link via ngrok (free), after login, append `/api/webhook/clerk` to
the link you get after entering:

```
$ ngrok http 3000
```

### Videos

Videos to better understand the OpenStatus codebase:

- [The code behind OpenStatus and how it uses Turbopack](https://youtube.com/watch?v=PYfSJATE8v8).
- [Drop Betterstack and go open source](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PKag0USy3eQ)

## Roadmap 🗺️

Here's our [roadmap](https://openstatus.productlane.com/roadmap) feel free to
contribute to it.

## Contributing 🤝

If you want to help us building the best status page and alerting system, you
can check our
[contributing guidelines](https://github.com/openstatusHQ/openstatus/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.MD)

### Top Contributors

<a href="https://github.com/openstatushq/openstatus/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=openstatushq/openstatus" />
</a>

Made with [Contrib.rocks](https://contrib.rocks)

### Stats

![Alt](https://repobeats.axiom.co/api/embed/180eee159c0128f683a30f15f51ac35bdbd9fa44.svg "Repobeats analytics image")

Commit message:

#553 Add Tunnelmole as an open source alternative to ngrok (#579)
* #553 Add Tunnelmole as an open source alternative to ngrok

* #553 Add url path

README.md, after:

<p align="center" style="margin-top: 120px">

  <h3 align="center">OpenStatus</h3>

  <p align="center">
    The Open-Source monitoring platform with incident management.
    <br />
    <a href="https://www.openstatus.dev"><strong>Learn more »</strong></a>
    <br />
    <br />
    <a href="https://www.openstatus.dev/discord">Discord</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://www.openstatus.dev">Website</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/openstatushq/openstatus/issues">Issues</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://openstatus.productlane.com/roadmap">Roadmap</a>
  </p>
</p>

## About OpenStatus 🏓

OpenStatus is open-source synthetic monitoring platform with beautiful status
page and incident management. We are building it publicly for everyone to see
our progress. We believe great softwares are built this way.

You can choose to host it yourself or use our hosted version at
[openstatus.dev](https://www.openstatus.dev)

## Contact us 💌

If you want to learn more about this project or have any questions, book a call
with us or send us an email at [ping@openstatus.dev](mailto:ping@openstatus.dev)
<br/><br/>
<a href="https://cal.com/team/openstatus/30min"><img alt="Book us with Cal.com" src="https://cal.com/book-with-cal-dark.svg" /></a>

## Built with 🛠️

- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/)
- [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/)
- [tinybird](http://tinybird.co/?ref=openstatus.dev)
- [turso](http://turso.tech/)
- [drizzle](https://orm.drizzle.team/)
- [clerk](https://clerk.com/)
- [Resend](https://resend.com/)

## Getting Started 🚀

### Requirements

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) >= 18.0.0
- [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/) >= 8.6.2

### Setup

1. Clone the repository

   ```sh
   git clone https://github.com/openstatushq/openstatus.git
   ```

2. Install dependencies

   ```sh
   pnpm install
   ```

3. Set up your .env file

   From `apps/web` and `packages/db`, you will find .env.example. Create your own copy.

4. Follow the steps to run your sqlite database locally inside of
   [README.md](https://github.com/openstatusHQ/openstatus/blob/main/packages/db/README.md)

5. Start the development server

   ```sh
    pnpm dev
   ```

6. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see
   the result.

For [clerk](https://clerk.com), you will need to create a webhook endpoint. To
access the link, you can use tunneling tools like [Tunnelmole](https://github.com/robbie-cahill/tunnelmole-client), an open source tunnelling tool or ngrok, a popular closed source tunnelling tool.

### Using Tunnelmole
1. Install Tunnelmole with `curl -O https://install.tunnelmole.com/384HK/install && sudo bash install`. (On Windows, download [tmole.exe](https://tunnelmole.com/downloads/tmole.exe))
2. Run `tmole 3000`. In the output, you'll see two URLs, one HTTP, and an HTTPS URL. It's best to use the HTTPS URL for privacy and security.
```
➜  ~ tmole 3000
http://bvdo5f-ip-49-183-170-144.tunnelmole.net is forwarding to localhost:3000
https://bvdo5f-ip-49-183-170-144.tunnelmole.net is forwarding to localhost:3000
```

Append `/api/webhook/clerk` to the HTTPs URL.

### Using ngrok
After login, append `/api/webhook/clerk` to
the link you get after entering:

```
$ ngrok http 3000
```

### Videos


Videos to better understand the OpenStatus codebase:

- [The code behind OpenStatus and how it uses Turbopack](https://youtube.com/watch?v=PYfSJATE8v8).
- [Drop Betterstack and go open source](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PKag0USy3eQ)

## Roadmap 🗺️

Here's our [roadmap](https://openstatus.productlane.com/roadmap) feel free to
contribute to it.

## Contributing 🤝

If you want to help us building the best status page and alerting system, you
can check our
[contributing guidelines](https://github.com/openstatusHQ/openstatus/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.MD)

### Top Contributors

<a href="https://github.com/openstatushq/openstatus/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=openstatushq/openstatus" />
</a>

Made with [Contrib.rocks](https://contrib.rocks)

### Stats

![Alt](https://repobeats.axiom.co/api/embed/180eee159c0128f683a30f15f51ac35bdbd9fa44.svg "Repobeats analytics image")
