apps/docs/pages/get-started/setup-env.mdx, before:

# **Configuration of the .env file**

The `.env` file contains various environment variables that need to be properly
configured for the application to work correctly. Below, I will explain how to
obtain the values for some of these variables, focusing on the section related
to Cleark Auth.

## **Setting up Clerk for auth**

1. Log in to your Clerk account at [https://clerk.com/](https://clerk.com/) or
   create a new account if you don't have one yet.

2. Once logged in, go to your dashboard at
   [https://dashboard.clerk.com/](https://dashboard.clerk.com/) and create a new
   app if you haven't already.

3. After setting up your app minimally, navigate to the "DEVELOPERS" section in
   the left-hand menu and find "API Keys."

4. In the "Quick Copy" section, make sure that Next.js is selected, then click
   the copy icon to obtain the keys. Copy the values for
   "NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY" and "CLERK_SECRET_KEY."

5. Paste these values into the `.env` file under their respective variables. It
   should look something like this (real values without censorship):

```
# CLERK for auth
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=pk_test_••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
CLERK_SECRET_KEY=sk_test_••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
```

Remember to replace the key values with the actual keys obtained from your Clerk
account.

## **Setting up Resend for sending emails**

The "RESEND for email" section in the `.env` file contains the "RESEND_API_KEY"
variable, which corresponds to the Resend API key that you need to set up to
send emails.

Here's how to obtain the Resend API key:

1. Access the Resend website at [https://resend.com](https://resend.com) and log
   in with your account or create a new account if you don't have one.

2. Once you've logged in, look for the option to add a new API Key. You can do
   this by clicking the corresponding button or navigating to the "API Keys"
   section and creating it from there.

3. Fill in the necessary information to create the API Key, such as the name and
   required permissions.

4. Once the API Key is created, copy its value, which usually starts with "re\_"
   and includes a series of characters.

5. Paste this API Key value into the `.env` file under the "RESEND_API_KEY"
   variable. It should look something like this (real values without
   censorship):

```
# RESEND for email
RESEND_API_KEY=re_••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
```

Replace the key with the actual Resend API key you obtained from your Resend
account.

## **Setting up UPSTASH (QStash and Redis)**

The "UPSTASH for queue" section in the `.env` file contains the following
variables related to QStash and Redis:

```
# UPSTASH for queue
QSTASH_CURRENT_SIGNING_KEY=qstash-current-signing-key
QSTASH_NEXT_SIGNING_KEY=qstash-next-signing-key
QSTASH_TOKEN=qstash-token
QSTASH_URL=https://qstash.upstash.io/v1/publish/


# UPSTASH redis for waiting list
UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_URL=test
UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_TOKEN=test
```

To configure UPSTASH correctly, follow these steps:

### **Obtaining QStash Keys**

1. Log in to your UPSTASH account at
   [https://upstash.com/](https://upstash.com/) or create a new account if you
   don't have one yet.

2. Once logged in, go to
   [https://console.upstash.com/qstash](https://console.upstash.com/qstash) and
   copy the keys you need one by one. These keys are
   "QSTASH_CURRENT_SIGNING_KEY", "QSTASH_NEXT_SIGNING_KEY", and "QSTASH_TOKEN".

3. Paste these keys into the `.env` file under their respective variables. It
   should look something like this (real values without censorship):

```
# UPSTASH for queue
QSTASH_CURRENT_SIGNING_KEY=sig_•••••••••••••••••••••••••
QSTASH_NEXT_SIGNING_KEY=sig_•••••••••••••••••••••••••
QSTASH_TOKEN=ey••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
QSTASH_URL=https://qstash.upstash.io/v1/publish/
```

Replace the ellipsis with the actual keys you obtained from UPSTASH.

### **Configuring Redis**

1. Create a Redis database in UPSTASH through
   [https://console.upstash.com/](https://console.upstash.com/).

2. Once the database is created, access "Details" and go to the "API REST"
   section, selecting the `.env` tab.

3. Copy the URL and token information displayed there and paste them in the
   `.env` file under the following variables:

```
# UPSTASH redis for waiting list
UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_URL="https://•••••••••.upstash.io"
UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_TOKEN="•••••••••"
```

Replace the ellipsis with the actual URL and token of Redis you obtained from
UPSTASH.

## **Setting up Turso (SQLite or Cloud Database)**

The "TURSO SQLITE" section in the `.env` file allows you to configure Turso
database, either a local SQLite database or a cloud-based database.

### If you want to use a local database (optional):

To begin, install sqld with brew. If you don't have brew installed, we recommend
installing it from [brew.sh](https://brew.sh/) which works on macOS or Linux, or
WSL if you are using Windows.

```bash
brew tap libsql/sqld
brew install sqld-beta
```

Next, you can use the following command to start Turso with a SQLite database:

```bash
turso dev --db-file openstatus.db
```

By doing this, you'll be able to work with the local database without modifying
the `.env` file.

### **If you want to use a cloud-based database with Turso**

To use a cloud-based database with Turso, follow these steps:

1. Log in to your Turso account at [https://turso.tech/](https://turso.tech/) or
   create a new account if you don't have one yet.

2. If this is your first time using Turso, it may prompt you to install the
   client on your machine. Follow the steps provided on their website or refer
   to their documentation
   [https://docs.turso.tech/tutorials/get-started-turso-cli/step-01-installation](https://docs.turso.tech/tutorials/get-started-turso-cli/step-01-installation)
   for client installation.

3. Once you have successfully installed the Turso client, open your terminal and
   use the following command to authenticate:

```
turso auth login
```

4. Then, create a new database with the following command:

```
turso db create
```

Wait for a moment until the database is created, and you will be shown
information about the database, including a connection URL and an authentication
token.

5. Use the following commands to show the required information and create the
   database in the `.env` file:

```
turso db show db-name
turso db tokens create db-name
```

Replace "db-name" with the name of your database. You should get the generated
URL and token, which should be placed in the `.env` file as follows (real values
without censorship):

```
# TURSO SQLITE
DATABASE_URL=libsql://my-database-example.turso.io
DATABASE_AUTH_TOKEN=ey••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
```

Remember to copy this information in both` app/web/.env` and `packages/db/.env`
and save the changes to the `.env` file once you have completed all the
configurations.

## **Conclusion**

Once you have collected all the necessary information, you should save it in the
`.env` file to ensure proper configuration for your application. Following these
steps will enable your application to function effectively with the appropriate
settings for each service.

Commit message:

add docs on the type of providers for auth

apps/docs/pages/get-started/setup-env.mdx, after:

# **Configuration of the .env file**

The `.env` file contains various environment variables that need to be properly
configured for the application to work correctly. Below, I will explain how to
obtain the values for some of these variables, focusing on the section related
to Cleark Auth.

## **Setting up Clerk for auth**

1. Log in to your Clerk account at [https://clerk.com/](https://clerk.com/) or
   create a new account if you don't have one yet.

2. Once logged in, go to your dashboard at
   [https://dashboard.clerk.com/](https://dashboard.clerk.com/) and select
   create a new app if you do not have any application already.

3. On the create new app screen, enter your app name and select **Google** and
   or **GitHub** under the section _How will your users sign in?_

   > Please note that using other providers will cause issues in the application
   > due to the different payload received from Clerk.

4. After setting up your app, navigate to the "DEVELOPERS" section in the
   left-hand menu and find "API Keys."

5. In the "Quick Copy" section, make sure that Next.js is selected, then click
   the copy icon to obtain the keys. Copy the values for
   "NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY" and "CLERK_SECRET_KEY."

6. Paste these values into the `.env` file under their respective variables. It
   should look something like this (real values without censorship):

```
# CLERK for auth
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=pk_test_••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
CLERK_SECRET_KEY=sk_test_••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
```

Remember to replace the key values with the actual keys obtained from your Clerk
account.

## **Setting up Resend for sending emails**

The "RESEND for email" section in the `.env` file contains the "RESEND_API_KEY"
variable, which corresponds to the Resend API key that you need to set up to
send emails.

Here's how to obtain the Resend API key:

1. Access the Resend website at [https://resend.com](https://resend.com) and log
   in with your account or create a new account if you don't have one.

2. Once you've logged in, look for the option to add a new API Key. You can do
   this by clicking the corresponding button or navigating to the "API Keys"
   section and creating it from there.

3. Fill in the necessary information to create the API Key, such as the name and
   required permissions.

4. Once the API Key is created, copy its value, which usually starts with "re\_"
   and includes a series of characters.

5. Paste this API Key value into the `.env` file under the "RESEND_API_KEY"
   variable. It should look something like this (real values without
   censorship):

```
# RESEND for email
RESEND_API_KEY=re_••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
```

Replace the key with the actual Resend API key you obtained from your Resend
account.

## **Setting up UPSTASH (QStash and Redis)**

The "UPSTASH for queue" section in the `.env` file contains the following
variables related to QStash and Redis:

```
# UPSTASH for queue
QSTASH_CURRENT_SIGNING_KEY=qstash-current-signing-key
QSTASH_NEXT_SIGNING_KEY=qstash-next-signing-key
QSTASH_TOKEN=qstash-token
QSTASH_URL=https://qstash.upstash.io/v1/publish/


# UPSTASH redis for waiting list
UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_URL=test
UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_TOKEN=test
```

To configure UPSTASH correctly, follow these steps:

### **Obtaining QStash Keys**

1. Log in to your UPSTASH account at
   [https://upstash.com/](https://upstash.com/) or create a new account if you
   don't have one yet.

2. Once logged in, go to
   [https://console.upstash.com/qstash](https://console.upstash.com/qstash) and
   copy the keys you need one by one. These keys are
   "QSTASH_CURRENT_SIGNING_KEY", "QSTASH_NEXT_SIGNING_KEY", and "QSTASH_TOKEN".

3. Paste these keys into the `.env` file under their respective variables. It
   should look something like this (real values without censorship):

```
# UPSTASH for queue
QSTASH_CURRENT_SIGNING_KEY=sig_•••••••••••••••••••••••••
QSTASH_NEXT_SIGNING_KEY=sig_•••••••••••••••••••••••••
QSTASH_TOKEN=ey••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
QSTASH_URL=https://qstash.upstash.io/v1/publish/
```

Replace the ellipsis with the actual keys you obtained from UPSTASH.

### **Configuring Redis**

1. Create a Redis database in UPSTASH through
   [https://console.upstash.com/](https://console.upstash.com/).

2. Once the database is created, access "Details" and go to the "API REST"
   section, selecting the `.env` tab.

3. Copy the URL and token information displayed there and paste them in the
   `.env` file under the following variables:

```
# UPSTASH redis for waiting list
UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_URL="https://•••••••••.upstash.io"
UPSTASH_REDIS_REST_TOKEN="•••••••••"
```

Replace the ellipsis with the actual URL and token of Redis you obtained from
UPSTASH.

## **Setting up Turso (SQLite or Cloud Database)**

The "TURSO SQLITE" section in the `.env` file allows you to configure Turso
database, either a local SQLite database or a cloud-based database.

### If you want to use a local database (optional):

To begin, install sqld with brew. If you don't have brew installed, we recommend
installing it from [brew.sh](https://brew.sh/) which works on macOS or Linux, or
WSL if you are using Windows.

```bash
brew tap libsql/sqld
brew install sqld-beta
```

Next, you can use the following command to start Turso with a SQLite database:

```bash
turso dev --db-file openstatus.db
```

By doing this, you'll be able to work with the local database without modifying
the `.env` file.

### **If you want to use a cloud-based database with Turso**

To use a cloud-based database with Turso, follow these steps:

1. Log in to your Turso account at [https://turso.tech/](https://turso.tech/) or
   create a new account if you don't have one yet.

2. If this is your first time using Turso, it may prompt you to install the
   client on your machine. Follow the steps provided on their website or refer
   to their documentation
   [https://docs.turso.tech/tutorials/get-started-turso-cli/step-01-installation](https://docs.turso.tech/tutorials/get-started-turso-cli/step-01-installation)
   for client installation.

3. Once you have successfully installed the Turso client, open your terminal and
   use the following command to authenticate:

```
turso auth login
```

4. Then, create a new database with the following command:

```
turso db create
```

Wait for a moment until the database is created, and you will be shown
information about the database, including a connection URL and an authentication
token.

5. Use the following commands to show the required information and create the
   database in the `.env` file:

```
turso db show db-name
turso db tokens create db-name
```

Replace "db-name" with the name of your database. You should get the generated
URL and token, which should be placed in the `.env` file as follows (real values
without censorship):

```
# TURSO SQLITE
DATABASE_URL=libsql://my-database-example.turso.io
DATABASE_AUTH_TOKEN=ey••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
```

Remember to copy this information in both` app/web/.env` and `packages/db/.env`
and save the changes to the `.env` file once you have completed all the
configurations.

## **Conclusion**

Once you have collected all the necessary information, you should save it in the
`.env` file to ensure proper configuration for your application. Following these
steps will enable your application to function effectively with the appropriate
settings for each service.
