apps/docs/pages/api-server/status-widget.mdx, before:

# Public Status Widget

We have added a public endpoint where you can access the status of your status
page. To access it, you only need the unique `:slug` you have chosen for your
page.

```bash
curl https://api.openstatus.dev/public/status/:slug
```

The response is a JSON object with the following structure:

```json
{ "status": "operational" }
```

in which the status can be one of the following values:

```ts
enum Status {
  Operational = "operational",
  DegradedPerformance = "degraded_performance",
  PartialOutage = "partial_outage",
  MajorOutage = "major_outage",
  UnderMaintenance = "under_maintenance", // currently not in use
  Unknown = "unknown",
}
```

### How does it work?

The status is calculated by the ratio `uptime / (uptime + downtime)` of the last
5 cron jobs of each monitor which we accumulate together. It is a simple
calculation that gives us a good overview of the status of your services.

```ts
function getStatus(ratio: number) {
  if (isNaN(ratio)) return Status.Unknown;
  if (ratio >= 0.98) return Status.Operational;
  if (ratio >= 0.6) return Status.DegradedPerformance;
  if (ratio >= 0.3) return Status.PartialOutage;
  if (ratio >= 0) return Status.MajorOutage;
  return Status.Unknown;
}
```

We are caching the result for `30 seconds` to reduce the load on our database.

> If you have a doubt about the above calculation, feel free to contact us via
> [ping@openstatus.dev](mailto:ping@openstatus.dev) or
> [discord](https://openstatus.dev/discord).

### React Widget

We currently do not provide any SDK or package to integrate the status into your
stack. But will in the future.

If you are using Nextjs and RSC with the `/app` directory, feel free to use that
Component. Small reminder that we are using shadcn ui and tailwindcss. You might
want to update the `bg-muted` and `text-foreground` classes to your needs.

![Status Widget](/img/status-widget/widget-example.png)

We are using `zod` to validate the response. You can use any other library if
you want or just remove it. But better be safe than sorry.

```tsx
import * as z from "zod";

const statusEnum = z.enum([
  "operational",
  "degraded_performance",
  "partial_outage",
  "major_outage",
  "under_maintenance",
  "unknown",
]);

const statusSchema = z.object({ status: statusEnum });

const dictionary = {
  operational: {
    label: "Operational",
    color: "bg-green-500",
  },
  degraded_performance: {
    label: "Degraded Performance",
    color: "bg-yellow-500",
  },
  partial_outage: {
    label: "Partial Outage",
    color: "bg-yellow-500",
  },
  major_outage: {
    label: "Major Outage",
    color: "bg-red-500",
  },
  unknown: {
    label: "Unknown",
    color: "bg-gray-500",
  },
  under_maintenance: {
    label: "Under Maintenance",
    color: "bg-gray-500",
  },
} as const;

export async function StatusWidget({ slug }: { slug: string }) {
  const res = await fetch(`https://api.openstatus.dev/public/status/${slug}`, {
    next: { revalidate: 60 }, // cache request for 60 seconds
  });
  const data = await res.json();
  const parsed = statusSchema.safeParse(data);

  if (!parsed.success) {
    return null;
  }

  const key = parsed.data.status;
  const { label, color } = dictionary[key];

  return (
    <a
      className="border-border text-foreground/70 hover:bg-muted hover:text-foreground inline-flex max-w-fit items-center gap-2 rounded-md border px-3 py-1 text-sm"
      href={`https://${slug}.openstatus.dev`}
      target="_blank"
      rel="noreferrer"
    >
      {label}
      <span className="relative flex h-2 w-2">
        {parsed.data.status === "operational" ? (
          <span
            className={`absolute inline-flex h-full w-full animate-ping rounded-full ${color} opacity-75 duration-1000`}
          />
        ) : null}
        <span
          className={`relative inline-flex h-2 w-2 rounded-full ${color}`}
        />
      </span>
    </a>
  );
}
```

Commit message:

feat: @openstatus/react (#366)
* feat: create first npm package

* feat: docs and package update

* chore: update readme

apps/docs/pages/api-server/status-widget.mdx, after:

import { Callout } from "nextra/components";

# Public Status Widget

We have added a public endpoint where you can access the status of your status
page. To access it, you only need the unique `:slug` you have chosen for your
page.

```bash
curl https://api.openstatus.dev/public/status/:slug
```

<Callout type="info">
  We have released an `@openstatus/react` npm package that allows you to easily
  integrate the pre-typed status into your React projects or use the default
  widget. Read more [here](/packages/react).
</Callout>

The response is a JSON object with the following structure:

```json
{ "status": "operational" }
```

in which the status can be one of the following values:

```ts
enum Status {
  Operational = "operational",
  DegradedPerformance = "degraded_performance",
  PartialOutage = "partial_outage",
  MajorOutage = "major_outage",
  UnderMaintenance = "under_maintenance", // currently not in use
  Unknown = "unknown",
}
```

### How does it work?

The status is calculated by the ratio `uptime / (uptime + downtime)` of the last
5 cron jobs of each monitor which we accumulate together. It is a simple
calculation that gives us a good overview of the status of your services.

```ts
function getStatus(ratio: number) {
  if (isNaN(ratio)) return Status.Unknown;
  if (ratio >= 0.98) return Status.Operational;
  if (ratio >= 0.6) return Status.DegradedPerformance;
  if (ratio >= 0.3) return Status.PartialOutage;
  if (ratio >= 0) return Status.MajorOutage;
  return Status.Unknown;
}
```

We are caching the result for `30 seconds` to reduce the load on our database.

> If you have a doubt about the above calculation, feel free to contact us via
> [ping@openstatus.dev](mailto:ping@openstatus.dev) or
> [discord](https://openstatus.dev/discord).

### React Widget

We currently do not provide any SDK or package to integrate the status into your
stack. But will in the future.

If you are using Nextjs and RSC with the `/app` directory, feel free to use that
Component. Small reminder that we are using shadcn ui and tailwindcss. You might
want to update the `bg-muted` and `text-foreground` classes to your needs.

![Status Widget](/img/status-widget/widget-example.png)

We are using `zod` to validate the response. You can use any other library if
you want or just remove it. But better be safe than sorry.

```tsx
import * as z from "zod";

const statusEnum = z.enum([
  "operational",
  "degraded_performance",
  "partial_outage",
  "major_outage",
  "under_maintenance",
  "unknown",
]);

const statusSchema = z.object({ status: statusEnum });

const dictionary = {
  operational: {
    label: "Operational",
    color: "bg-green-500",
  },
  degraded_performance: {
    label: "Degraded Performance",
    color: "bg-yellow-500",
  },
  partial_outage: {
    label: "Partial Outage",
    color: "bg-yellow-500",
  },
  major_outage: {
    label: "Major Outage",
    color: "bg-red-500",
  },
  unknown: {
    label: "Unknown",
    color: "bg-gray-500",
  },
  under_maintenance: {
    label: "Under Maintenance",
    color: "bg-gray-500",
  },
} as const;

export async function StatusWidget({ slug }: { slug: string }) {
  const res = await fetch(`https://api.openstatus.dev/public/status/${slug}`, {
    next: { revalidate: 60 }, // cache request for 60 seconds
  });
  const data = await res.json();
  const parsed = statusSchema.safeParse(data);

  if (!parsed.success) {
    return null;
  }

  const key = parsed.data.status;
  const { label, color } = dictionary[key];

  return (
    <a
      className="border-border text-foreground/70 hover:bg-muted hover:text-foreground inline-flex max-w-fit items-center gap-2 rounded-md border px-3 py-1 text-sm"
      href={`https://${slug}.openstatus.dev`}
      target="_blank"
      rel="noreferrer"
    >
      {label}
      <span className="relative flex h-2 w-2">
        {parsed.data.status === "operational" ? (
          <span
            className={`absolute inline-flex h-full w-full animate-ping rounded-full ${color} opacity-75 duration-1000`}
          />
        ) : null}
        <span
          className={`relative inline-flex h-2 w-2 rounded-full ${color}`}
        />
      </span>
    </a>
  );
}
```
