apps/docs/src/content/docs/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Welcome
description: Explore our documentation to get started with OpenStatus.
template: doc
topic: docs
next: false
hero:
  title: Welcome to OpenStatus Documentation
  tagline: Explore our documentation to get started with OpenStatus
---

import { Card, CardGrid, LinkCard } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';
import "../../custom.css"

<CardGrid >
	<Card title="Synthetic Monitoring" icon="open-book">
		Learn how to <a href="/monitoring/create-monitor">create</a> your first monitor with OpenStatus.
	</Card>
	<Card title="Guides " icon="rocket">
		Read our <a href="guides/introduction/">guides</a> to discover what you can do with OpenStatus
	</Card>
	<Card title="CLI" icon="seti:shell">
		Learn more about our [CLI](/cli/getting-started) to manage and run your synthetic check.
	</Card>
	<Card title="API Reference" icon="puzzle">
		Use our <a href="https://api.openstatus.dev/v1">API</a> to build amazing things on top of OpenStatus
	</Card>
	<Card title="Open Source" icon="seti:github">
		Checkout our [GitHub repository](https://www.github.com/openstatushq/openstatus) to contribute or report issues.
	</Card>
</CardGrid>


## Join the community

Join the commmunity to get help, share your ideas or just to say hi.

<CardGrid>
<LinkCard href="https://www.openstatus.dev/discord" title="Discord"/>
<LinkCard href="https://bsky.app/profile/openstatus.dev" title="Bluesky" />
</CardGrid>

Commit message:

📝 Docs few improvements (#1106)
* few improvements

* ci: apply automated fixes

* 📝 some docs improvments

* ci: apply automated fixes

---------

Co-authored-by: autofix-ci[bot] <114827586+autofix-ci[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

apps/docs/src/content/docs/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Documentation
description: Explore our documentation to get started with OpenStatus.
template: doc
topic: docs
next: false
hero:
  title: Welcome to OpenStatus
  tagline: Explore our documentation to get started with OpenStatus
---

import { Card, CardGrid, LinkCard } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';
import "../../custom.css"

### What is OpenStatus?

[OpenStatus](https://www.openstatus.dev) is an open-source synthetic monitoring tool that helps you monitor the availability and performance of your website, API, servers from various locations around the world.

We also provide beautiful status pages to keep your users informed about the status of your services.

### New to OpenStatus?


<CardGrid >
	<Card title="Synthetic Monitoring" icon="open-book">
		Learn how to <a href="/monitoring/create-monitor">create</a> your first monitor with OpenStatus.
	</Card>
	<Card title="Guides " icon="rocket">
		Read our <a href="guides/introduction/">guides</a> to discover what you can do with OpenStatus
	</Card>
	<Card title="CLI" icon="seti:shell">
		Learn more about our [CLI](/cli/getting-started) to manage and run your synthetic check.
	</Card>
	<Card title="API Reference" icon="puzzle">
		Use our <a href="https://api.openstatus.dev/v1">API</a> to build amazing things on top of OpenStatus
	</Card>
	<Card title="Open Source" icon="seti:github">
		Checkout our [GitHub repository](https://www.github.com/openstatushq/openstatus) to contribute or report issues.
	</Card>
</CardGrid>


### Join the community

Join the commmunity to get help, share your ideas or just to say hi.

<CardGrid>
<LinkCard href="https://www.openstatus.dev/discord" title="Discord"/>
<LinkCard href="https://bsky.app/profile/openstatus.dev" title="Bluesky" />
</CardGrid>
